The only short answer to this question is: maybe yes, maybe no. There
are a number of things you need to figure out before.

Will my application run on a supercomputer?
-------------------------------------------

Maybe yes, maybe no. All VSC clusters - and the majority of large
supercomputers in the world - run the Linux operation system. So it
doesn't run Windows or OS X applications. Your application will have to
support Linux, and the specific variants that we use on our clusters,
but these are popular versions and rarely pose problems.

Next supercomputers are not really build to run interactive applications
well. They are built to be shared by many people and using command line
applications. There are several issues:

-  Since you share the machine with many users, you may have to wait a
   while before your job might launch. This is organised through a
   queueing system: you submit your job to a waiting line and a
   scheduler decides who's next to run based on a large number of
   parameters: job duration, number of processors needed, have you run a
   lot of jobs recently, ... So by the time you job starts, you may have
   gone home already.
-  You don't sit at a monitor attached to the supercomputer. Even though
   that supercomputers can also be used for visualisation, you'll still
   need a suitable system on your desk to show the final image, and use
   software that can send the drawing commands or images generated on
   the supercomputer to your desktop.

Will my application run faster on a supercomputer?
--------------------------------------------------

You'll be disappointed to hear that the answer is actually quite often
\\"no\". It is not uncommon that an application runs faster on a good
workstation than on a supercomputer. Supercomputers are optimised for
large applications that access large chunks of memory (RAM or disk) in a
particular way and are very parallel, i.e., they can keep a lot of
processor cores busy. Their CPUs are optimised to do as much work in
parallel as fast as possible, at the cost of lower performance for
programs that don't exploit parallelism, while high-end workstation
processors are more optimised for those programs that run sequentially
or don't use a lot of parallelism and often have disksystems that can
better deal with many small files.

| That being said, even that doesn't have to be disastrous. Parallelism
  can come in different forms. Sometimes you may have to run the same
  program for a large number of test cases, and if the memory
  consumption for a program for a simple test case is reasonable, you
  may be able to run a lot of instances of that program simultaneously
  on the same multi-core processor chip. This is called *capacity
  computing*. And some applications are very well written and can
  exploit all the forms of parallelism that a modern supercomputer
  offers, provided you solve a large enough problem with that program.
  This is called *capability computing*. We support both at the VSC.

OK, my application can exploit a supercomputer. What's next?
------------------------------------------------------------

Have a look our web page on `requesting access in the general
section <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/requesting-access\%22>`__. It
explains who can get access to the supercomputers. And as that text
explains, you'll may need to install some additional software the system
from which you want to access the clusters (which for the majority of
our users is their laptop or desktop computer).

Basically, you communicate with the cluster through a protocol called
\\"SSH\" which stands for \\"Secure SHell\". It encrypts all the
information that is passed to the clusters, and also provides an
authentication mechanism that is a bit safer than just sending
passwords. The protocol can be used both to get a console on the system
(a \\"command line interface\" like the one offered by CMD.EXE on Widows
or the term app on OS X) and to transfer files to the system. The
absolute minimum you need before you can actually request your account,
is a SSH client to generate the key that will be used to talk to the
clusters. For Windows, you can `use
PuTTY <\%22/client/windows/keys-putty\%22>`__ (freely available, see
`the link on our PuTTY page <\%22/client/windows/console-putty\%22>`__),
on macOS/OS X you can `use the built-in OpenSSH
client <\%22/client/macosx/keys-openssh\%22>`__, and Linux systems
typically also `come with
OpenSSH <\%22/client/linux/keys-openssh\%22>`__. But to actually use the
clusters, you may want to install some additional software, such as a
GUI sftp client to transfer files. We've got links to a lot of useful
client software `on our web page on access and data
transfer <\%22/cluster-doc/access-data-transfer\%22>`__.

Yes, I'm ready
--------------

Then follow the links on our `user portal page on requesting an
account <\%22/cluster-doc/account-request\%22>`__. And don't forget
we've got `training programs <\%22/en/education--training\%22>`__ to get
you started and `technical support <\%22/support/contact-support\%22>`__
for when you run into trouble.
