The successor of Muk is expected to be installed in the spring 2016.

There is also a small test cluster for experiments with accellerators
(GPU and Intel Xeon Phi) with a view to using this technology in future
VSC clusters.

The Tier-1 cluster Muk
----------------------

The Tier-1 cluster Muk has 528 computing nodes, each with two 8-core
Intel Xeon processors from the Sandy Bridge generation (E5-2670, 2.6
GHz). Each node features 64 GiB RAM, for a total memory capacity of more
than 33 TiB. The computing nodes are connected by an FDR InfiniBand
interconnect with a fat tree topology. This network has a high bandwidth
(more than 6,5GB / s per direction per link) and a low latency. The
storage is provided by a disk system with a total disk capacity of 400
TB and a peak bandwidth of 9.5 GB / s.

The cluster achieves a peak performance of more than 175 Tflops and a
Linpack performance of 152.3 Tflops. With this result, the cluster was
for 5 consecutive periods in the Top500 list of fastest supercomputers
in the world:

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| List      | 06/2012   | 11/2012   | 06/2013   | 11/2013   | 06/2014   |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Position  | 118       | 163       | 239       | 306       | 430       |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

In November 2014 the cluster fell just outside the list but still took
99% of the performance of the system in place 500.

Accellerator testbed
--------------------

In addition to the tier-1 cluster Muk, the VSC has an experimental GPU /
Xeon Phi cluster. 8 nodes in this cluster have 2 K20x nVidia GPUs with
accompanying software stack, and 8 nodes are equipped with two Intel
Xeon Phi 5110P (\"Knight's Corner\" generation) boards. The nodes are
interconnected by means of a QDR InfiniBand network. For practical
reasons, these nodes were integrated into the KU Leuven / Hasselt
University Tier-2 infrastructure.

Software
--------

Like on all other VSC-clusters, the operating system of Muk is a variant
of Linux, in this case Scientific Linux which in turn based on Red Hat
Linux. The system also features a comprehensive stack of software
development tools which includes the GNU and Intel compilers, debugger
and profiler for parallel applications and different versions of OpenMPI
and Intel MPI.

There is also an extensive set of freely available applications
installed on the system. More software can be installed at the request
of the user. Users however have to take care of the software licenses
when the software is not freely available, and therefore also for the
financing of that license.

`Detailed overview of the installed
software <\%22/cluster-doc/software/tier1-muk\%22>`__

Access to the Tier-1 system
---------------------------

Academic users can access the Tier-1 cluster Muk through a project
application. There are two types of project applications

-  The Tier-1 starting grant of up to 100 node days to test and / or to
   optimize software, typically with a view to a regular request for
   computing time. There is a continuous assessment process for this
   project type.
   `Learn
   more <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/tier1-starting-grant\%22>`__
-  The regular project application, for allocations between 500 and 5000
   node days. The applications are assessed on scientific excellence and
   technical feasibility by an evaluation committee of foreign experts.
   There are three cut-off dates a year at which the submitted project
   proposals are evaluated. The users are also expected to pay a small
   contribution towards the cost.
   `Learn
   more <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/project-access-tier1\%22>`__

To use the GPU / Xeon Phi cluster it is sufficient to contact the `HPC
coordinator of your institution <\%22/en/about-vsc/contact\%22>`__.

Industrial users and non-Flemish research institutions and
not-for-profit organizations can also `purchase computing time on the
Tier-1
Infrastructure <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/access-industry\%22>`__.
For this you can contact the `Hercules
Foundation <\%22/en/about-vsc/contact\%22>`__.
