The application
---------------

The designated way to get access to the Tier-1 for research purposes is
through a project application.

You have to submit a proposal to get compute time on the Tier-1 cluster
Muk.

You should include a realistic estimate of the compute time needed in
the project in your application. These estimations can best be endorsed
by Tier-1 benchmarks. To be able to perform these tests for new codes,
you can request a `starting
grant <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/tier1-starting-grant\%22>`__
through a short and quick procedure.

You can submit proposals continuously, but they will be gathered,
evaluated and resources allocated at a number of cut-off dates. There
are 3 cut-off dates in 2016 :

-  February 1, 2016
-  June 6, 2016
-  October 3, 2016

Proposals submitted since the last cut-off and before each of these
dates are reviewed together.

The FWO appoints an evaluation commission to do this.

Because of the international composition of the `evaluation
commission <\%22/en/about-vsc/organisation-structure#tier1-evaluation\%22>`__,
the preferred language for the proposals is English. If a proposal is in
Dutch, you must also sent an English translation. Please have a look at
the documentation of standard terms like: CPU, core, node-hour, memory,
storage, and use these consistently in the proposal.

For applications in 2014 or 2015, costs for resources used will be
invoiced, with various discounts for Flemish-funded academic
researchers. You should be aware that the investments and operational
costs for the Tier-1 infrastructure are considerable.

You can submit you application `via EasyChair <\%22#easychair\%22>`__
using the application forms below.

Relevant documents - 2016
-------------------------

On October 26 the Board of Directors of the Hercules foundation decided
to make a major adjustment to the regulations regarding applications to
use the Flemish supercomputer.

For applications for computing time on the Tier-1 granted in 2016 and
coming from researchers at universities, the Flemish SOCs and the
Flemish public knowledge institutions, applicants will no longer have to
pay a contribution in the cost of compute time and storage. Of course,
the applications have to be of outstanding quality. The evaluation
commission remains responsible for te review of the applications.

For applications granted in 2015 the current pricing structure remains
in place and contributions will be asked.

The adjusted Regulations for 2016 can be found in the links below.

From January 1, 2016 on the responsibility for the funding of HPC and
the management of the Tier-1 has been transferred to the FWO, including
all current decisions and ongoing contracts.

-  `Reglement betreffende aanvragen voor het gebruik van de Vlaamse
   supercomputer (Dutch only, applicable as of 1 January 2016) (PDF, 213
   kB) <\%22/assets/1043\%22>`__
-  Enclosure 1: `The application form for Category 1
   Applications <\%22/assets/1041\%22>`__ (research project of which the
   scientific quality has already been evaluated, see §1 of the
   Regulations for the criteria) (docx, 60 kB)
-  Enclosure 2: `The application form for Category 2
   projects <\%22/assets/1045\%22>`__ (research projects that have not
   yet been evaluated scientifically) (docx, 71 kB)
-  Enclosure 3: `The procedure for the use of
   EasyChair <\%22#easychair\%22>`__
-  `The official version of the letter highlighting the 2016 changes is
   only available in Dutch by following this
   link <\%22https://www.vscentrum.be/assets/1029\%22>`__.
-  `An overview of the available (scientific)
   software <\%22/cluster-doc/software/tier1-muk\%22>`__
-  `An overview of standard terms used in
   HPC <\%22/support/tut-book/hpc-glossary\%22>`__
-  `The list of scientific
   domains <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/project-access-tier1/domains\%22>`__

If you need help to fill out the application, please consult your local
support team.

Relevant documents - 2015
-------------------------

-  `Regulations regarding applications to use the Flemish supercomputer
   (applicable as of 1 January 2015) <\%22/assets/207\%22>`__
-  Enclosure 1: `Cost price computing time and \\"SCRATCH\" disk
   storage <\%22#pricing\%22>`__

Pricing - applications in 2015
------------------------------

When you receive compute time through a Tier-1 project application, we
expect a contribution in the cost of compute time and storage.

**Summary of Rates:**

**CPU/nodeday**

**Private Disk/TB/mo**

**Universities, VIB and iMINDS**

**0.68€ (5%)**

**2€ (5%)**

**other SOCs and other flemish public research institutes**

**1.35€ (10%)**

**4€ (10%)**

**Flemish public research institutes - contract research with
possibility of full cost accounting (*)**

**13,54€**

**46,8€**

**Flemish public research institutes - European projects with
possibility of full cost accounting (*)**

**13,54€**

**46,8€**

(*) The price for one nodeday is 13.54 euro (incl. overhead and support
of Tier-1 technical support team, but excl. advanced support by
specialized staff). The price for 1TB storage per month is 46.80 euro
(incl. overhead and support of TIER1 technical support team, but excl.
advanced support by specialized staff). Approved Tier-1 projects get a
default quota of 1TB. Only storage request higher then 1TB will be
charged for the amount above 1TB.

EasyChair procedure
-------------------

You have to submit your proposal on `EasyChair for the conference
Tier12016 <\%22https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=tier12016\%22>`__.
This requires the following steps:

#. If you do not yet have an EasyChair account, you first have to create
   one:

   #. Complete the CAPTCHA
   #. Provide first name, name, e-mail address
   #. A confirmation e-mail will be sent, please follow the instructions
      in this e-mail (click the link)
   #. Complete the required details.
   #. When the account has been created, a link will appear to log in on
      the TIER1 submission page.

#. Log in onto the EasyChair system.
#. Select ‘New submission’.
#. If asked, accept the EasyChair terms of service.
#. Add one or more authors; if they have an EasyChair account, they can
   follow up on and/or adjust the present application.
#. Complete the title and abstract.
#. You must specify at least three keywords: Include the institution of
   the promoter of the present project and the field of research.
#. As a paper, submit a PDF version of the completed Application form.
   You must submit the complete proposal, including the enclosures, as 1
   single PDF file to the system.
#. Click \\"Submit\".
#. EasyChair will send a confirmation e-mail to all listed authors.

"
