Computational science has - alongside experiments and theory - become
the fully fledged third pillar of science. Supercomputers offer
unprecedented opportunities to simulate complex models and as such to
test theoretical models against reality. They also make it possible to
extract valuable knowledge from massive amounts of data.

For many calculations, a laptop or workstation is no longer sufficient.
Sometimes dozens or hundreds of CPU cores and hundreds of gigabytes or
even terabytes of RAM-memory are necessary to produce an acceptable
solution within a reasonable amount of time.

Our offer
---------

An overview of our services:

-  Access to a variety of **supercomputing infrastructure**, suited for
   many applications.
-  **Guidance and advice** when determining whether your software is
   suited to our infrastructure.
-  **Training** (from beginner to advanced level) on the use of
   supercomputers. In this training all aspects are covered: how to run
   a program on a supercomputer, how to develop software, and for some
   application domains even how to use a couple of popular packages.
-  **Support** with optimizing the use of your infrastructure.
-  **A wide range of free software.** When using commercial software it
   is the responsibility of the user to take care of a license with a
   number of packages as an exception to this. For these packages we
   ourselves are responsible to ensure optimal running.

More information?
-----------------

More information can be found in our `training
section <\%22/en/education-and-trainings\%22>`__ and `user
portal <\%22/en/user-portal\%22>`__.

"
