To access certain cluster login nodes, from outside your institute's
network (e.g., from home) you need to set a so-called VPN (Virtual
Private Network). By setting up a VPN to your institute, your computer
effectively becomes a computer on your institute's network and will
appear as such to other services that you access. Your network traffic
will be routed through your institute's network. If you want more
information: There's an `introductory page on
HowStuffWorks <\%22https://computer.howstuffworks.com/vpn.htm\%22>`__
and a `page that is more for techies on
Wikipedia <\%22https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_private_network\%22>`__.

The VPN service is not provided by the VSC but by your institute's ICT
centre, and they are your first contact for help. However, for your
convenience, we present some pointers to that information:

-  KU Leuven: Information `in
   Dutch <\%22https://admin.kuleuven.be/icts/services/extranet/index\%22>`__
   and `in
   English <\%22https://admin.kuleuven.be/icts/english/services/VPN/VPN\%22>`__.
   Information on contacting the service desk for assistance is also
   available `in
   Dutch <\%22https://admin.kuleuven.be/icts/servicepunt\%22>`__ and `in
   English <\%22https://admin.kuleuven.be/icts/english/servicedesk\%22>`__.
-  UGent: Information `in
   Dutch <\%22https://helpdesk.ugent.be/vpn/\%22>`__ and `in
   English <\%22https://helpdesk.ugent.be/vpn/en/\%22>`__. Contact
   information for the help desk is also available `in
   Dutch <\%22https://helpdesk.ugent.be/extra/\%22>`__ and `in
   English <\%22https://helpdesk.ugent.be/extra/en/\%22>`__ (with links
   at the bottom of the VPN pages).
-  UAntwerpen: Log in to `the Pintra
   service <\%22https://pintra.uantwerpen.be/\%22>`__ and then visit
   `the VPN
   page <\%22https://pintra.uantwerpen.be/webapps/ua-pintrasite-BBLEARN/module/index.jsp?course_id=_8_1&tid=_525_1&lid=_11434_1&l=nl_PINTRA\%22>`__
   in the \\"Network\" section of the pages of \\"Departement ICT\". If
   you only have a student account, you will find the same information
   in the `Infocenter ICT on
   Blackboard <\%22https://blackboard.uantwerpen.be/webapps/blackboard/execute/announcement?method=search&context=course_entry&course_id=_4177_1&handle=announcements_entry&mode=view\%22>`__,
   which has a `page on
   VPN <\%22https://blackboard.uantwerpen.be/webapps/blackboard/content/listContent.jsp?course_id=_4177_1&content_id=_397880_1\%22>`__
   in the Networks section. The contact information for the help desk in
   on `the start page of the subsite \\"Departement
   ICT\" <\%22https://pintra.uantwerpen.be/webapps/ua-pintrasite-BBLEARN/module/index.jsp?course_id=_8_1\%22>`__.
   *Note that the configuration of the VPN changed on 25 October 2016,
   so if you have trouble connecting, check your settings!*
-  VUB: The VUB offers no central VPN system at this time. `There is a
   VPN solution (\"Pulse Secure VPN\") which requires special
   permission. <\%22http://vubnet.vub.ac.be/vpn.html\%22>`__
-  UHasselt: the pre-configured VPN software can be
   `downloaded <\%22https://software.uhasselt.be/index.php?catid=410\%22>`__
   (intranet, only staff members), contact the `UHasselt helpdesk (mail
   link) <\%22mailto:helpdesk@uhasselt.be\%22>`__ if you have problems.
   There is also some information about this `on the page
   \\"Accessibility from a distance\" of the University
   Library <\%22https://bibliotheek.uhasselt.be/en/accessibility-distance\%22>`__.

"
