© FWO

Use of this website means that you acknowledge and accept the terms and
conditions below.

Content disclaimer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The FWO takes great care of its website and strives to ensure that all
the information provided is as complete, correct, understandable,
accurate and up-to-date as possible. In spite of all these efforts, the
FWO cannot guarantee that the information provided on this website is
always complete, correct, accurate or up-to-date. Where necessary, the
FWO reserves the right to change and update information at its own
discretion. The publication of official texts (legislation, Flemish
Parliament Acts, regulations, etc.) on this website has no official
character.

If the information provided on or by this website is inaccurate then the
FWO will do everything possible to correct this as quickly as possible.
Should you notice any errors, please contact the website administrator:
`kurt.lust@uantwerpen.be <\%22mailto:kurt.lust@uantwerpen.be\%22>`__.
The FWO makes every effort to ensure that the website does not become
unavailable as a result of technical errors. However, the FWO cannot
guarantee the website's availability or the absence of other technical
problems.

The FWO cannot be held liable for any direct or indirect damage arising
from the use of the website or from reliance on the information provided
on or through the website. This also applies without restriction to all
losses, delays or damage to your equipment, software or other data on
your computer system.

Protection of personal data
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The FWO is committed to protecting your privacy. Most information is
available on or through the website without your having to provide any
personal data. In some cases, however, you may be asked to provide
certain personal details. In such cases, your data will be processed in
accordance with the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy
with regard to the processing of personal data and with the Royal Decree
of 13 February 2001, which implements the Law of 8 December 1992 on the
protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data.

The FWO provides the following guarantees in this context:

-  Your personal data will be collected and processed only in order to
   provide you with the information or service you requested online. The
   processing of your personal data is limited to the intended
   objective.
-  Your personal data will not be disclosed to third parties or used for
   direct marketing purposes unless you have formally consented to this
   by opting in.
-  The FWO implements the best possible safety measures in order to
   prevent abuse of your personal data by third parties.

Providing personal information through the online registration module
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By providing your personal information, you consent to this personal
information being recorded and processed by the FWO and its
representatives. The information you provided will be treated as
confidential.

The FWO may also use your details to invite you to events or keep you
informed about activities of the VSC.

Cookies
~~~~~~~

What are cookies and why do we use them?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cookies are small text or data files that a browser saves on your
computer when you visit a website.

This web site saves cookies on your computer in order to improve the
website’s usability and also to analyse how we can improve our web
services.

Which cookies does this website use?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Functional cookies: Cookies used as part of the website’s security.
   These cookies are deleted shortly after your visit to our website
   ends.
-  Non-functional cookies

   -  **Google Analytics: \_GA
      **\ We monitor our website’s usage statistics with Google
      Analytics, a system which loads a number of cookies whenever you
      visit the website. These \_GA cookies allow us to check how many
      visitors our website gets and also to collect certain demographic
      details (e.g. country of origin).

Can you block or delete cookies?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can prevent certain cookies being installed on your computer by
adjusting the settings in your browser’s options. In the ‘privacy’
section, you can specify any cookies you wish to block.

Cookies can also be deleted in your browser’s options via ‘delete
browsing history’.

We use cookies to collect statistics which help us simplify and improve
your visit to our website. As a result, we advise you to allow your
browser to use cookies.

Hyperlinks and references
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The website contains hyperlinks which redirect you to the websites of
other institutions and organisations and to information sources managed
by third parties. The FWO has no technical control over these websites,
nor does it control their content, which is why it cannot offer any
guarantees as to the completeness or correctness of the content or
availability of these websites and information sources.

The provision of hyperlinks to other websites does not imply that the
FWO endorses these external websites or their content. The links are
provided for information purposes and for your convenience. The FWO
accepts no liability for any direct or indirect damage arising from the
consultation or use of such external websites or their content.

Copyright
~~~~~~~~~

All texts and illustrations included on this website, as well as its
layout and functionality, are protected by copyright. The texts and
illustrations may be printed out for private use; distribution is
permitted only after receiving the authorisation of the FWO. You may
quote from the website providing you always refer to the original
source. Reproductions are permitted, providing you always refer to the
original source, except for commercial purposes, in which case
reproductions are never permitted, even when they include a reference to
the source.

Permission to reproduce copyrighted material applies only to the
elements of this site for which the FWO is the copyright owner.
Permission to reproduce material for which third parties hold the
copyright must be obtained from the relevant copyright holder.
