A collaboration with the VSC offers your company a good number of
benefits.

-  Together we will identify which expertise within the Flemish
   universities and their associations is appropriate for you when
   rolling out High Performance Computing (HPC) within your company.
-  We can also assist with the technical writing of a project proposal
   for financing for example through the IWT (Agency for Innovation by
   Science and Technology).
-  You can participate in courses on HPC, including tailor-made courses
   provided by the VSC.
-  You will have access to a supercomputer infrastructure with a
   dedicated, on-site team assisting you during the start-up phase.
-  As a software developer, you can also deploy HPC software
   technologies to develop more efficient software which makes better
   use of modern hardware.
-  A shorter turnaround time for your simulation or data study boosts
   productivity and increases the responsiveness of your business to new
   developments.
-  The possibility to carry out more detailed simulations or to analyse
   larger amounts of data can yield new insights which in turn lead to
   improved products and more efficient processes.
-  A quick analysis of the data collected during a production process
   helps to detect and correct abnormalities early on.
-  Numerical simulation and virtual engineering reduce the number of
   prototypes and accelerate the discovery of potential design problems.
   As a result you are able to market a superior product faster and
   cheaper.

"
