The 4th VSC Users Day was held at the \\"Paleis der Academiën\", the
seat of the \\"\ `Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the
Arts <\%22https://www.vscentrum.be/events/userday-2017/venue\%22>`__\\",
in the Hertogstraat 1, 1000 Brussels, on May 22, 2018.

Program
-------

The titles in the program link to slides or abstracts of the
presentations.

-  9u50 : Welcome
-  10u00: `“Ultrascalable algorithms for complex flows” – Ulrich Rüde,
   CERFACS and Universitaet
   Erlangen-Nuernberg <\%22https://www.researchgate.net/publication/325285871_Ultra_scalable_Algorithms_for_Complex_Flows\%22>`__
-  11u00: Coffee break
-  11u25: Workshop sessions part 1 – VSC staff

   -  Start to VSC
   -  `Start to GPU <\%22/assets/1361\%22>`__
   -  `Code optimization <\%22/assets/1363\%22>`__

-  12u15: `1 minute poster
   presentations <\%22/events/userday-2018/posters\%22>`__
-  12u45: Lunch
-  13h30: `Poster session <\%22/events/userday-2018/posters\%22>`__
-  14u15: `“Processing Genomics Data: High Performance Computing meets
   Big Data” – Jan Fostier, UGent <\%22/assets/1359\%22>`__
-  14u45: Workshop sessions part 2 – VSC staff

   -  Start to VSC
   -  `Start to GPU <\%22/assets/1361\%22>`__
   -  `Code debugging <\%22/assets/1365\%22>`__

-  15u35: Coffee break
-  15u55: “Why HPC and artificial intelligence engineering go hand in
   hand” – Joris Coddé, CTO Diabatix
-  16u15: Tier-1 supercomputing platform as a service –
-  16u35: Poster award and closing
-  16u45: Reception
-  18u: end

Abstracts of workshops
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**VSC for starters**

The workshop provides a smooth introduction to supercomputing for new
users. Starting from common concepts in personal computing the
similarities and differences with supercomputing are highlighted and
some essential terminology is introduced. It is explained what users can
expect from supercomputing and what not, as well as what is expected
from them as users.

**Start to GPU**

GPU’s have become an important resource of computational power. For some
workloads they are extremely suited eg. Machine learning frameworks, but
also applications vendors are providing more and more support. So it is
important to keep track of things happening in your research field. This
workshop will provide you with an overview of available GPU power within
VSC and will give you guidelines how you can start using it.

**Code debugging**

All code contains bugs, and that is frustrating. Trying to identify and
eliminate them is tedious work. The extra complexity in parallel code
makes this even harder. However, using coding best practices can reduce
the number of bugs in your code considerably, and using the right tools
for debugging parallel code will simplify and streamline the process of
fixing your code. Familiarizing yourself with best practices will give
you an excellent return on investment.

**Code optimization**

Performance is a key concern in HPC (High Performance Computing). As a
developer, but also as an application user you have to be aware of the
impact of modern computer architecture on the efficiency of you code.
Profilers can help you identify performance hotspots so that you can
improve the performance of your code systematically. Profilers can also
help you to find the limiting factors when you run an application, so
that you can improve your workflow to try and overcome those as much as
possible.

Paying attention to efficiency will allow you to scale your research to
higher accuracy and fidelity.

"
