The VSC infrastructure is can also be used by industry and non-Flemish
research institutes. Here we describe the modalities.

Tier-1
------

It is possible to get paid access to the Tier-1 infrastructure of the
VSC. In a first phase, you can get up to 100 free node-days of compute
time to verify that the infrastructure is suitable for your
applications. You can also get basic support for software installation
and the use of the infrastructure. When your software requires a
license, you should take care of that yourself.

For further use, there is a tree-parties legal agreement required with
KU Leuven as the operator of the system and the Research Foundation -
Flanders (FWO). You will be billed only for the computing time used and
reserved disk space, according to the following rates:

**Summary of Rates (VAT included):**

**Compute**

**(euro/node day)**

**Storage**

**(euro/TB/month)**

**Non-Flemish public research institutes and not-for-profit
organisations**

€ 13

€ 15

**Industry**

€ 13

€ 15

These prices include the university overhead and basic support from the
Tier-1 support staff, but no advanced level support by specialised
staff.

For more information you can `contact our industry account manager
(FWO) <\%22mailto:industry@fwo.be\%22>`__.

Tier-2
------

It is also possible to gain access to the Tier-2 infrastructure within
the VSC. Within the Tier-2 infrastructure, there are also clusters
tailored to special applications such as small clusters with GPU or Xeon
Phi boards, a large shared memory machine or a cluster for Hadoop
applications. See the `high-level
overview <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/tier-2-clusters\%22>`__ or
`detailed pages about the available
infrastructure <\%22/infrastructure/hardware\%22>`__ for more
information.

For more information and specific arrangements please contact `the
coordinator of the institution which operates the
infrastructure <\%22/en/about-vsc/contact\%22>`__. In this case you only
need an agreement with this institution without involvement of the FWO.

"
