We offer you the opportunity of a free trial of the Tier-1 to prepare a
future regular Tier-1 project application. You can test if your software
runs well on the Tier-1 and do the scalability tests that are required
for a project application.

If you want to check if buying compute time on our infrastructure is an
option, we offer a `very similar free programme for a test
ride <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/access-industry\%22>`__.

Characteristics of a Starting Grant
-----------------------------------

-  The maximum amount is 100 nodedays.
-  The maximal allowed period to use the compute time is 2 months.
-  The allocation is personal and can't be transferred or shared with
   other researchers.
-  Requests can be done at any time, there are no cutoff days.
-  The use of this compute time is free of charge.

Procedure to apply and grant the request
----------------------------------------

#. Download the `application form for a starting grant version 2018
   (docx, 31 kB) <\%22/assets/1331\%22>`__\ .
#. Send the completed application by e-mail to the Tier-1 contact
   address
   (`hpcinfo@icts.kuleuven.be <\%22mailto:hpcinfo@icts.kuleuven.be\%22>`__),
   with your local VSC coordinator in cc.
#. The request will be judged for its validity by the Tier-1
   coordinator.
#. After approval the Tier-1 coordinator will give you access and
   compute time.
   If not approved, you will get an answer with a motivation for the
   decision.
#. The granted requests are published on the VSC website. Therefore you
   need to provide a short abstract in the application.

"
