Inline code with <code>...</code>
---------------------------------

We used inline code on the old vscentrum.be to clearly mark system
commands etc. in text.

-  For this we used the <code> tag.
-  There was support in the editor to set this tag
-  It doesn't seem to work properly in the current editor. If the
   fragment of code contains a slash (/), the closing tag gets omitted.

Example: At UAntwerpen you'll have to use ``module avail MATLAB`` and
``module load MATLAB/2014a`` respectively.

However, If you enter both <code>-blocks on the same line in a HTML
file, the editor doesn't process them well: ``module avail MATLAB`` and
<code>module load MATLAB.

En dit is ``code inline`` als test.

En dit dit wordt een nieuw pre-blok:

::

   #!/bin/bash
   echo \"Hello, world!\"

Code in <pre>...</pre>
----------------------

This was used a lot on the old vscentrum.be site to display fragments of
code or display output in a console windows.

-  Readability of fragments is definitely better if a fixed width font
   is used as this is necessary to get a correct alignment.
-  Formatting is important: Line breaks should be respected. The problem
   with the CMS seems to be that the editor respects the line breaks,
   the database also stores them as I can edit the code again, but the
   CMS removes them when generating the final HTML-page as I don't see
   the line breaks again in the resulting HTML-code that is loaded into
   the browser.

::

   #!/bin/bash -l
   #PBS -l nodes=1:nehalem
   #PBS -l mem=4gb
   module load matlab
   cd $PBS_O_WORKDIR
   ...

The <code> style in the editor
------------------------------

In fact, the Code style of the editor works on a paragraph basis and all
it does is put the paragraph between <pre> and </pre>-tags, so the
problem mentioned above remains. The next text was edited in WYSIWIG
mode:

::

   #!/bin/bash -l
   #PBS -l nodes=4:ivybridge
   ...

Another editor bug is that it isn't possible to switch back to regular
text mode at the end of a code fragment if that is at the end of the
text widget: The whole block is converted back to regular text instead
and the formatting is no longer shown.

Een Workaround is misschien meerdere <pre>-blokken gebruiken?

::

   #!/bin/bash -l

::

   #PBS -l nodes=4:ivybridge

::

   ...

Neen, want dan krijg je meerdere grijze vakken...

En met <br> en de <code>-tag?

``#! /bin/bash -l#PBS -l nodes=4:ivybridge...``

Ook dit is niet ideaal, want alles staat niet aaneenin een kader, maar
het is beter dan niets...

"
