In the past few decades supercomputers have not only revolutionized
scientific research but have also been used increasingly by businesses
all over the world to accelerate design, production processes and the
development of innovative services.

Situation
---------

Modern microelectronics has created many new opportunities. Today
powerful supercomputers enable us to collect and process huge amounts of
data. Complex systems can be studied through numerical simulation
without having to build a prototype or set up a scaled experiment
beforehand. All this leads to a quicker and cheaper design of new
products, cost-efficient processes and innovative services. To support
this development in Flanders, the Flemish Government founded in late
2007 the Flemish Supercomputer Center (VSC) as a partnership between the
government and Flemish university associations. The accumulated
expertise and infrastructure are assets we want to make available to the
industry.

Technology Offer
----------------

A collaboration with the VSC offers your company a good number of
benefits.

-  Together we will identify which expertise within the Flemish
   universities and their associations is appropriate for you when
   rolling out High Performance Computing (HPC) within your company.
-  We can also assist with the technical writing of a project proposal
   for financing for example through the IWT (Agency for Innovation by
   Science and Technology).
-  You can participate in courses on HPC, including tailor-made courses
   provided by the VSC.
-  You will have access to a supercomputer infrastructure with a
   dedicated, on-site team assisting you during the start-up phase.
-  As a software developer, you can also deploy HPC software
   technologies to develop more efficient software which makes better
   use of modern hardware.
-  A shorter turnaround time for your simulation or data study boosts
   productivity and increases the responsiveness of your business to new
   developments.
-  The possibility to carry out more detailed simulations or to analyse
   larger amounts of data can yield new insights which in turn lead to
   improved products and more efficient processes.
-  A quick analysis of the data collected during a production process
   helps to detect and correct abnormalities early on.
-  Numerical simulation and virtual engineering reduce the number of
   prototypes and accelerate the discovery of potential design problems.
   As a result you are able to market a superior product faster and
   cheaper.

About the VSC
-------------

The VSC was launched in late 2007 as a collaboration between the Flemish
Government and five Flemish university associations. Many of the VSC
employees have a strong technical and scientific background. Our team
also collaborates with many research groups at various universities and
helps them and their industrial partners with all aspects of
infrastructure usage.

Besides a competitive infrastructure, the VSC team also offers full
assistance with the introduction of High Performance Computing within
your company.

"
