+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| The program contains links to some of the presentations. The          |
| copyright for the presentations remains with the original authors and |
| not with the VSC. Reproducing parts of these presentations or using   |
| them in other presentations can only be done with the agreement of    |
| the author(s) of the presentation.                                    |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

14u15

Scientific program

14u15

| Dr. ir. Kurt Lust (Vlaams Supercomputer Centrum). Presentation of the
  VSC
| `Presentation (PDF) <\%22/assets/279\%22>`__

14u30

Prof. dr. Patrick Bultinck (Universiteit Gent). `In
silico <\%22#Bultinck\%22>`__\ `Chemistry: Quantum Chemistry and
Supercomputers
 <\%22#Bultinck\%22>`__\ `Presentation (PDF) <\%22/assets/281\%22>`__

14u45

| Prof. dr. Wim Vanroose (Universiteit Antwerpen). `Large scale
  calculations of molecules in laser fields <\%22#Vanroose\%22>`__
| `Presentation (PDF) <\%22/assets/283\%22>`__

15u00

Prof. dr. Stefaan Tavernier (Vrije Universiteit Brussel). `Grid
applications in particle and astroparticle physics: The CMS and IceCube
projects
 <\%22#Tavernier\%22>`__\ `Presentation (PDF) <\%22/assets/285\%22>`__

15u15

Prof. dr. Dirk Van den Poel (Universiteit Gent). `Research using HPC
capabilities in the field of economics/business & management science
 <\%22#VandenPoel\%22>`__\ `Presentation (PDF) <\%22/assets/291\%22>`__

15u30

Dr. Kris Heylen (K.U.Leuven). `Supercomputing and Linguistics
 <\%22#Heylen\%22>`__\ `Presentation (PDF) <\%22/assets/287\%22>`__

15u45

Dr. ir. Lies Geris (K.U.Leuven). `Modeling in biomechanics and
biomedical engineering
 <\%22#Geris\%22>`__\ `Presentatie (PDF) <\%22/assets/289\%22>`__

16u00

Prof. dr. ir. Chris Lacor (Vrije Universiteit Brussel) and Prof. Dr.
Stefaan Poedts (K.U.Leuven). `Supercomputing in CFD and
MHD <\%22#LacorPoedts\%22>`__

16u15

Coffee break

17u00

Academic session

17u00

| Prof. dr. ir. Karen Maex, Chairman of the steering group of the Vlaams
  Supercomputer Centrum
| `Presentatie (PDF) <\%22/assets/293\%22>`__

17u10

| Prof. dr. dr. Thomas Lippert, Director of the Institute for Advanced
  Simulation and head of the Jülich Supercomputer Centre,
  Forschungszentrum Jülich. European view on supercomputing and PRACE
| `Presentation (PDF) <\%22/assets/295\%22>`__

17u50

| Prof. dr. ir. Charles Hirsch, President of the HPC Working Group of
  the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Sciences and the Arts (KVAB)
| `Presentation (PDF) <\%22/assets/297\%22>`__

18u00

| Prof. dr. ir. Bart De Moor, President of the Board of Directors of the
  Hercules Foundation
| `Presentation (PDF) <\%22/assets/299\%22>`__

18u10

Minister Patricia Ceysens, Flemish Minister for Economy, Enterprise,
Science, Innovation and Foreign Trade

18u30

Reception

Abstracts
=========

Prof. dr. Patrick Bultinck. In silico Chemistry: Quantum Chemistry and Supercomputers
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Universiteit Gent/Ghent University, Faculty of Sciences, Department of
Inorganic and Physical Chemistry*

| Quantum Chemistry deals with the chemical application of quantum
  mechanics to understand the nature of chemical substances, the reasons
  for their (in)stability but also with finding ways to predict
  properties of novel molecules prior to their synthesis. The working
  horse of quantum chemists is therefore no longer the laboratory but
  the supercomputer. The reason for this is that quantum chemical
  calculations are notoriously computationally demanding.
| These computational demands are illustrated by the scaling of
  computational demands with respect to the size of molecules and the
  level of theory applied. An example from Vibrational Circular
  Dichroism calculations shows how supercomputers play a role in
  stimulating innovation in chemistry.

**Prof. dr. Patrick Bultinck** (° Blankenberge, 1971) is professor in
Quantum Chemistry, Computational and inorganic chemistry at Ghent
University, Faculty of Sciences, Department of Inorganic and Physical
Chemistry. He is author of roughly 100 scientific publications and
performs research in quantum chemistry with emphasis on the study of
concepts such as the chemical bond, the atom in the molecule and
aromaticity. Another main topic is the use of computational (quantum)
chemistry in drug discovery. In 2002 and 2003 P. Bultinck received
grants from the European Center for SuperComputing in Catalunya for his
computationally demanding work in this field.

Prof. dr. Wim Vanroose. Large scale calculations of molecules in laser fields
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Universiteit Antwerpen, Department of Mathematics and Computer Science*

| Over the last decade, calculations with large scale computer has
  caused a revolution
| in the understanding of the ultrafast dynamics that plays at the
  microscopic level. We give an overview of the international efforts to
  advance the computational tools for this area of science. We also
  discuss how the results of the calculations are guiding chemical
  experiments.

**Prof. dr. Wim Vanroose** is BOF-Research professor at the Department
of Mathematics and Computer Science, Universiteit Antwerpen. He is
involved in international efforts to build to computational tools for
large scale simulations for ultrafast microscopic dynamics. Between 2001
and 2004 he was a computational scientist at NERSC computing center at
the Berkeley Lab, Berkeley USA.

Prof. dr. Stefaan Tavernier. Grid applications in particle and astroparticle physics: The CMS and IceCube projects
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Faculty of Science and Bio-engineering
Sciences, Department of Physics, Research Group of Elementary Particle
Physics*

| The large hadron collider LHC at the international research centre
  CERN near Geneva is due to go into operation at the end of 2009. It
  will be the most powerful particle accelerator ever, and will give us
  a first glimpse of the new phenomena that that are expected to occur
  at these energies. However, the analysis of the data produced by the
  experiments around this accelerator also represents an unprecedented
  challenge. The VUB, UGent and UA participate in the CMS project. This
  is one of the four major experiments to be performed at this
  accelerator. One year of CMS operation will result in about 106 GBytes
  of data. To cope with this flow of data, the CMS collaboration has
  setup a GRID computing infrastructure with distributed computer
  infrastructure scattered over the participating laboratories in 4
  continents.
| The IceCube Neutrino Detector is a neutrino observatory currently
  under construction at the South Pole. IceCube is being constructed in
  deep Antarctic ice by deploying thousands of optical sensors at depths
  between 1,450 and 2,450 meters. The main goal of the experiment is to
  detect very high energy neutrinos from the cosmos. The neutrinos are
  not detected themselves. Instead, the rare instance of a collision
  between a neutrino and an atom within the ice is used to deduce the
  kinematical parameters of the incoming neutrino. The sources of those
  neutrinos could be black holes, gamma ray bursts, or supernova
  remnants. The data that IceCube will collect will also contribute to
  our understanding of cosmic rays, supersymmetry, weakly interacting
  massive particles (WIMPS), and other aspects of nuclear and particle
  physics. The analysis of the data produced by ice cube requires
  similar computing facilities as the analysis of the LHC data.

**Prof. dr. Stefaan Tavernier** is professor of physics at the Vrije
Universiteit Brussel. He obtained a Ph.D. at the Faculté des sciences of
Orsay(France) in 1968, and a \\"Habilitation\" at de VUB in 1984. He
spent most of his scientific career working on research projects at the
international research centre CERN in Geneva. He has been project leader
for the CERN/NA25 project, and he presently is the spokesperson of the
CERN/Crystal Clear(RD18) collaboration. His main expertise is in
experimental methods for particle physics. He has over 160 publications
in peer reviewed international journals, made several contributions to
books and has several patents. He is also the author of a textbook on
experimental methods in nuclear and particle physics.

Prof. dr. Dirk Van den Poel. Research using HPC capabilities in the field of economics/business & management science
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Universiteit Gent/Ghent University, Faculty of Economics and Business
Administration, Department of
Marketing,*\ `www.crm.UGent.be <\%22http://www.crm.UGent.be\%22>`__\ *and*\ `www.mma.UGent.be <\%22http://www.mma.UGent.be\%22>`__

HPC capabilities in the field of economics/business & management science
are most welcome when optimizing specific quantities (e.g. maximizing
sales, profits, service level, or minimizing costs) subject to certain
constraints. Optimal solutions for common problems are usually
computationally infeasible even with the biggest HPC installations,
therefore researchers develop heuristics or use techniques such as
genetic algorithms to come close to optimal solutions. One of the nice
properties they possess is that they are typically easily
parallelizable. In this talk, I will give several examples of typical
research questions, which need an HPC infrastructure to obtain good
solutions in a reasonable time window. These include the optimization of
marketing actions towards different marketing segments in the domain of
analytical CRM (customer relationship management) and solving
multiple-TSP (traveling salesman problem) under load balancing,
alternatively known as the vehicle routing problem under load balancing.

**Prof. dr. Dirk Van den Poel** (° Merksem, 1969) is professor of
marketing modeling/analytical customer relationship management (aCRM) at
Ghent University. He obtained his MSc in management/business engineering
as well as PhD from K.U.Leuven. He heads the modeling cluster of the
Department of Marketing at Ghent University. He is program director of
the Master of Marketing Analysis, a one-year program in English about
predictive analytics in marketing. His main interest fields are aCRM,
data mining (genetic algorithms, neural networks, random forests, random
multinomial logit: RMNL), text mining, optimal marketing resource
allocation and operations research.

Dr. Kris Heylen. Supercomputing and Linguistics
-----------------------------------------------

*Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Faculty of Arts, Research Unit
Quantitative Lexicology and Variational Linguistics (QLVL)*

| Communicating through language is arguably one of the most complex
  processes that the most powerful computer we know, the human brain, is
  capable of. As a science, Linguistics aims to uncover the intricate
  system of patterns and structures that make up human language and that
  allow us to convey meaning through words and sentences. Although
  linguists have been investigating and describing these structures for
  ages, it is only recently that large amounts of electronic data and
  the computational power to analyse them have become available and have
  turned linguistics into a truly data-driven science. The primary data
  for linguistic research is ordinary, everyday language use like
  conversations or texts. These are collected in very large electronic
  text collections, containing millions of words and these collections
  are then mined for meaningful structures and patterns. With increasing
  amounts of data and ever more advanced statistical algorithms, these
  analyses are not longer feasible on individual servers but require the
  computational power of interconnected super computers.
| In the presentation, I will briefly describe two case studies of
  computationally heavy linguistic research. A first case study has to
  do with the pre-processing of linguistic data. In order to find
  patterns at different levels of abstraction, each word in the text
  collection has to be enriched with information about its word class
  (noun, adjective, verb,..) and syntactic function within the sentence
  (subject, direct object, indirect object...). A piece of software,
  called a parser, can add this information automatically. For our
  research, we wanted to parse a text collection of 1.3 billion words,
  i.e. all issues from a 7 year period of 6 Flemish daily newspapers,
  representing a staggering 13 years of computing on an ordinary
  computer. Thanks to the K.U.Leuven's supercomputer, this could be done
  in just a few months. This data has now been made available to the
  wider research community.

**Dr. Kris Heylen** obtained a Master in Germanic Linguistics (2000) and
a Master in Artificial Intelligence (2001) from the K.U.Leuven. In 2005,
he was awarded a PhD in Linguistics at the K.U.leuven for his research
into the statistical modelling of German word order variation. Since
2006, he is a postdoctoral fellow at the Leuven research unit
Quantitative Lexicology and Variational Linguistics (QLVL), where he has
further pursued his research into statistical language modelling with a
focus on lexical patterns and word meaning in Dutch.

Dr. ir. Lies Geris. Modeling in biomechanics and biomedical engineering
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

*Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Faculty of Engineering, Department of
Mechanical Engineering, Division of Biomechanics and Engineering Design*

| The first part of the presentation will discuss the development and
  applications of a mathematical model of fracture healing. The model
  encompasses several key-aspects of the bone regeneration process, such
  as the formation of blood vessels and the influence of mechanical
  loading on the progress of healing. The model is applied to simulate
  adverse healing conditions leading to a delayed or nonunion. Several
  potential therapeutic approaches are tested in silico in order to find
  the optimal treatment strategy. Going towards patient specific models
  will require even more computer power than is the case for the generic
  examples presented here.
| The second part of the presentation will give an overview of other
  modeling work in the field of biomechanics and biomedical engineering,
  taking place in Leuven and Flanders. The use of super computer
  facilities is required to meet the demand for more detailed models and
  patient specific modeling.

Dr. ir. Liesbet Geris is a post-doctoral research fellow of the Research
Foundation Flanders (FWO) working at the Division of Biomechanics and
Engineering Design of the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium. From
the K.U.Leuven, she received her MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in
2002 and her PhD degree in Engineering in 2007, both summa cum laude. In
2007 she worked for 4 months as an academic visitor at the Centre of
Mathematical Biology of Oxford University. Her research interests
encompass the mathematical modeling of bone regeneration during fracture
healing, implant osseointegration and tissue engineering applications.
The phenomena described in the mathematical models reach from the tissue
level, over the cell level, down to the molecular level. She works in
close collaboration with experimental and clinical researchers from the
university hospitals Leuven, focusing on the development of mathematical
models of impaired healing situations and the in silico design of novel
treatment strategies. She is the author of 36 refereed journal and
proceedings articles, 5 chapters and reviews and 18 peer-reviewed
abstracts. She has received a number of awards, including the Student
Award (2006) of the European Society of Biomechanics (ESB) and the Young
Investigator Award (2008) of the International Federation for Medical
and Biological Engineering (IFMBE).

Prof. dr. ir. Chris Lacor\ 1 en Prof. dr. Stefaan Poedts\ 2. Supercomputing in CFD and MHD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*1\ Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Faculty of Applied Sciences, Department
of Mechanical Engineering
2\ Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Faculty of Sciences, Department of
Mathematics, Centre for Plasma Astrophysics*

| CFD is an application field in which the available computing power is
  typically always lagging behind. With the increase of computer
  capacity CFD is looking towards more complex applications – because of
  increased geometrical complication or multidisciplinary aspects e.g.
  aeroacoustics, turbulent combustion, biological flows, etc – or more
  refined models such as Large Eddy Simulation (LES) or Direct Numerical
  Simulation (DNS). In this presentation some demanding application
  fields of CFD will be highlighted, to illustrate this.
| Computational MHD has a broad range of applications. We will survey
  some of the most CPU demanding applications in Flanders in the context
  of examples of the joint initiatives combining expertise from multiple
  disciplines, the VSC will hopefully lead to, such as the customised
  applications built in the COOLFluiD and AMRVAC-CELESTE3D projects.

**Prof. dr. ir. Chris Lacor** obtained a degree in Electromechanical
Engineering at VUB in 79 and his PhD in 86 at the same university.
Currently he is Head of the Research Group Fluid Mechanics and
Thermodynamics of the Faculty of Engineering at VUB. His main research
field is Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD). He stayed at the NASA Ames
CFD Branch as an Ames associate in 87 and at EPFL IMF in 89 where he got
in contact with the CRAY supercomputers. In the early 90ies he was
co-organizer of supercomputing lectures for the VUB/ULB CRAY X-MP
computer. His current research focuses on Large Eddy Simulation,
high-order accurate schemes and efficient solvers in the context of a
variety of applications such as Computational Aeroacoustics, Turbulent
Combustion, Non-Deterministic methods and Biological Flows. He is author
of more than 100 articles in journals and on international conferences.
He is also a fellow of the Flemish Academic Centre for Science and the
Arts (VLAC).

**Prof. dr. Stefaan Poedts** obtained his degree in Applied Mathematics
in 1984 at the K.U.Leuven. As 'research assistant' of the Belgian
National Fund for Scientific Research he obtained a PhD in Sciences
(Applied Mathematics) in 1988 at the same university. He spent two years
at the Max-Planck-Institut für Plasmaphysik in Garching bei München and
five years at the FOM-Instituut voor Plasmafysica 'Rijnhuizen'. In
October 1996 he returned to the K.U.Leuven as Research Associate of the
FWO-Vlaanderen at the Centre for Plasma Astrophysics (CPA) in the
Department of Mathematics. Since October 1, 2000 he is Academic Staff at
the K.U.Leuven, presently as Full Professor. His research interests
include solar astrophysics, space weather and controlled thermonuclear
fusion. He co-authored two books and 170 journal articles on these
subjects. He is president of the European Solar Physics Division (EPS &
EAS) and chairman of the Leuven Mathematical Modeling and Computational
Science Centre. He is also member of ESA’s Space Weather Working Team
and Solar System Working Group.
