| The VSC does not only rely on the Tier-1 supercomputer to respond to
  the need for computing capacity. The HPC clusters of the University of
  Antwerp, VUB, Ghent University and KU Leuven constitute the VSC Tier-2
  infrastructure, with a total computing capacity of 416.2 TFlops.
  Hasselt University invests in the HPC cluster of Leuven. Each cluster
  has its own specificity and is managed by the university’s dedicated
  HPC/ICT team. The clusters are interconnected with a 10 Gbps BELNET
  network, ensuring maximal cross-site access to the different cluster
  architectures. For instance, a VSC user from Antwerp can easily log in
  to the infrastructure at Leuven.

Infrastructure
--------------

-  `The Tier-2 of the University of
   Antwerp <\%22/infrastructure/hardware/hardware-ua\%22>`__ consists of
   a cluster with 168 nodes, accounting for 3.360 cores (336 processors)
   and 75 TFlops. Storage capacity is 100 TB. By the spring of 2017 a
   new cluster will gradually becoming available, containing 152 regular
   compute nodes and some facilities for visualisation and to test
   GPU-computing and Xeon Phi computing.
-  `The Tier-2 of VUB
   (Hydra) <\%22/infrastructure/hardware/hardware-vub\%22>`__ consists
   of 3 clusters of successive generations of processors with a peak
   capacity of 75 TFlops (estimated). The total storage capacity is 446
   TB. It has a relatively large memory per computing node and is
   therefore best fit for computing jobs that require a lot of memory
   per node or per core. This configuration is complemented by a High
   Troughput Computing (HTC) grid infrastructure.
-  `The Tier-2 of Ghent University
   (Stevin) <\%22/infrastructure/hardware/hardware-ugent\%22>`__
   represents a capacity of 226 TFlops (11.328 cores over 568 nodes) and
   a storage capacity of 1,430 TB. It is composed of several clusters, 1
   of which is intended for single-node computing jobs and 4 for
   multi-node jobs. One cluster has been optimized for memory-intensive
   computing jobs and BigData problems.
-  `The joint KU Leuven/UHasselt
   Tier-2 <\%22/infrastructure/hardware/hardware-kul\%22>`__ housed by
   KU Leuven focuses on small capability computing and tasks requiring a
   fairly high disk bandwidth. The infrastructure consists of a thin
   node cluster with 7.616 cores and a total capacity of 230 TFlops. A
   shared memory system with 14 TB of RAM and 640 cores yields an
   additional 12 TFlops. A total storage of 280 TB provides the
   necessary I/O capacity. Furthermore, there are a number of nodes with
   accellerators (including the GPU/Xeon Phi cluster purchased as an
   experimental tier-1 setup) and 2 visualization nodes.

More information
----------------

A more detailed description of the complete infrastructure is available
in the \\"\ `Available
hardware <\%22/en/infrastructure/hardware\%22>`__\\" section of the
`user portal <\%22/en/user-portal\%22>`__.

"
