The application
---------------

The designated way to get access to the Tier-1 for research purposes is
through a project application.

You have to submit a proposal to get compute time on the Tier-1 cluster
BrENIAC.

You should include a realistic estimate of the compute time needed in
the project in your application. These estimations can best be endorsed
by Tier-1 benchmarks. To be able to perform these tests for new codes,
you can request a `starting
grant <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/tier1-starting-grant\%22>`__
through a short and quick procedure.

You can submit proposals continuously, but they will be gathered,
evaluated and resources allocated at a number of cut-off dates. There
are 3 cut-off dates in 2018 :

-  February 5, 2018
-  June 4, 2018
-  October 1, 2018

Proposals submitted since the last cut-off and before each of these
dates are reviewed together.

The FWO appoints an evaluation commission to do this.

Because of the international composition of the `evaluation
commission <\%22/en/about-vsc/organisation-structure#tier1-evaluation\%22>`__,
the preferred language for the proposals is English. If a proposal is in
Dutch, you must also sent an English translation. Please have a look at
the documentation of standard terms like: CPU, core, node-hour, memory,
storage, and use these consistently in the proposal.

| You can submit you application `via
  EasyChair <\%22https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=tier12017\%22>`__
  using the application forms below.

Relevant documents - 2018
-------------------------

As was already the case for applications for computing time on the
Tier-1 granted in 2016 and 2017 and coming from researchers at
universities, the Flemish SOCs and the Flemish public knowledge
institutions, applicants do not have to pay a contribution in the cost
of compute time and storage. Of course, the applications have to be of
outstanding quality. The evaluation commission remains responsible for
te review of the applications. For industry the price for compute time
is 13 EURO per node day including VAT and for storage 15 EURO per TB per
month including VAT.

The adjusted Regulations for 2018 can be found in the links below.

-  `Reglement betreffende aanvragen voor het gebruik van de Vlaamse
   supercomputer (Dutch only, applicable as of 1 January 2018) (PDF, 791
   kB) <\%22/assets/1327\%22>`__
-  Enclosure 1: `The application form for 2018 (docx, 82 kB, last update
   March 2018) <\%22/assets/1329\%22>`__
-  `An overview of standard terms used in
   HPC <\%22/support/tut-book/hpc-glossary\%22>`__
-  ` <\%22/support/tut-book/hpc-glossary\%22>`__\ `The list of
   scientific
   domains <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/project-access-tier1/domains\%22>`__
-  Submission is done via `EasyChair <\%22#easychair\%22>`__

If you need help to fill out the application, please consult your local
support team.

Relevant documents - 2017
-------------------------

As was already the case for applications for computing time on the
Tier-1 granted in 2016 and coming from researchers at universities, the
Flemish SOCs and the Flemish public knowledge institutions, applicants
do not have to pay a contribution in the cost of compute time and
storage. Of course, the applications have to be of outstanding quality.
The evaluation commission remains responsible for te review of the
applications. For industry the price for compute time is 13 EURO per
node day including VAT and for storage 15 EURO per TB per month
including VAT.

The adjusted Regulations for 2017 can be found in the links below.

-  `Reglement betreffende aanvragen voor het gebruik van de Vlaamse
   supercomputer (Dutch only, applicable as of 1 January 2017) (PDF, 215
   kB) <\%22/assets/1171\%22>`__
-  Enclosure 1: `The application form (docx, 54 kB, last update May
   2017) <\%22/assets/1193\%22>`__. There is only a single category of
   projects in 2017. Research projects that have not yet been evaluated
   scientifically, should get an approval of the proposed research
   project by the university of the promotor. See §5 of the Regulations.
-  `An overview of standard terms used in
   HPC <\%22/support/tut-book/hpc-glossary\%22>`__
-  ` <\%22/support/tut-book/hpc-glossary\%22>`__\ `The list of
   scientific
   domains <\%22/en/access-and-infrastructure/project-access-tier1/domains\%22>`__
-  Submission is done via `EasyChair <\%22#easychair\%22>`__

EasyChair procedure
-------------------

| You have to submit your proposal on `EasyChair for the conference
  Tier12018 <\%22https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=tier12018\%22>`__.
  This requires the following steps:

#. If you do not yet have an EasyChair account, you first have to create
   one:

   #. Complete the CAPTCHA
   #. Provide first name, name, e-mail address
   #. A confirmation e-mail will be sent, please follow the instructions
      in this e-mail (click the link)
   #. Complete the required details.
   #. When the account has been created, a link will appear to log in on
      the TIER1 submission page.

#. Log in onto the EasyChair system.
#. Select ‘New submission’.
#. If asked, accept the EasyChair terms of service.
#. Add one or more authors; if they have an EasyChair account, they can
   follow up on and/or adjust the present application.
#. Complete the title and abstract.
#. You must specify at least three keywords: Include the institution of
   the promoter of the present project and the field of research.
#. As a paper, submit a PDF version of the completed Application form.
   You must submit the complete proposal, including the enclosures, as 1
   single PDF file to the system.
#. Click \\"Submit\".
#. EasyChair will send a confirmation e-mail to all listed authors.

"
