Even if you don't do software development yourself (and software
development includes, e.g., developing R- or Matlab routines), working
on a supercomputer differs from using a PC, so some training is useful
for everybody.

Linux
-----

If you are familiar with a Linux or UNIX environment, there is no need
to take any course. Working with Linux on a supercomputer is not that
different from working with Linux on a PC, so you'll likely find your
way around quickly.

Otherwise, there are several options to learn more about Linux

-  We have some `very basic pages on Linux
   use <\%22/cluster-doc/using-linux\%22>`__ in the user documentation.
   The `introductory
   page <\%22/cluster-doc/using-linux/basic-linux-usage\%22>`__ contains
   a number of links to courses on the web.
-  Several institutions at the VSC also organise regular Linux
   introductory courses. Check the \\"\ `Education and
   Training <\%22/en/education--training\%22>`__\\" page on upcoming
   courses.

A basic HPC introduction
------------------------

Such a course at the VSC has a double goal: Learning more about HPC in
general but also about specific properties of the system at the VSC that
you need to know to run programs sufficiently efficiently.

-  Several institutions at the VSC organise periodic introductions to
   their infrastructure or update sessions for users when new additions
   are made to the infrastructure. Check the \\"\ `Education and
   Training <\%22/en/education--training\%22>`__\\" page on upcoming
   courses.
-  We are working on a new introductory text that will soon be available
   on this site. The text covers both the software that you need to
   install on your own computer and working on the clusters, with
   specific information for your institution.
-  Or you can work your way through the documentation on the user
   portal. This is probably sufficient if you are already familiar with
   supercomputers. Of particular interest may be the page on our
   `implementation of the module
   system <\%22/cluster-doc/software/modules\%22>`__, the pages on
   `running jobs <\%22/cluster-doc/running-jobs\%22>`__ (as there are
   different job submission systems around, we use Torque/Moab), and the
   `pages about the available
   hardware <\%22/en/infrastructure/hardware\%22>`__ that also contain
   information about the settings needed for each specific system.

What next?
----------

We also run courses on many other aspects of supercomputing such as
program development or use of specific applications. As the other
courses, they are announced on our \\"\ `Education and
Training <\%22/en/education--training\%22>`__\\" page. Or you can read a
some good books, look at training programs offered at the European level
through PRACE or check some web courses. We maintain links to several of
those on the \\"\ `Tutorials and books <\%22/support/tut-book\%22>`__\\"
pages.

Be aware that some tools that are useful to prototype applications on a
PC, may be very inefficient when run at a large scale on a
supercomputer. Matlab programs can often be accelerated through
compiling with the Matlab compiler. R isn't the most efficient tool
either. And Python is an excellent \\"glue language\" to get a number of
applications or optimised (non-Python) libraries to work together, but
shouldn't be used for entire applications that consume a lot of CPU time
either. We've got courses on several of those languages where you also
learn how to use them efficiently, and you'll also notice that on some
clusters there are restrictions on the use of these tools.
