The VSC is a consortium of five Flemish universities. This consortium
has no legal personality. Its objective is to build a Tier-1 and Tier-2
infrastructure in accordance with the European pyramid model. Staff
appointed at five Flemish universities form an integrated team dedicated
to training and user support.

For specialized support each institution can appeal to an expert
independent of where he or she is employed. The universities also invest
in HPC infrastructure and the VSC can appeal to the central services of
these institutions. In addition, embedment in an academic environment
creates opportunities for cooperation with industrial partners.

The VSC project is managed by the Research Foundation - Flanders (FWO),
that receives the necessary financial resources for this task from the
Flemish Government.

| Operationally, the VSC is controlled by the HPC workgroup consisting
  of employees from the FWO and HPC coordinators from the various
  universities. The HPC workgroup meets monthly. During these meetings
  operational issues are discussed and agreed upon and strategic advice
  is offered to the Board of Directors of the FWO.

In addition, four committees are involved in the operation of the VSC:
the Tier-1 user committee, the Tier-1 evaluation committee, the
Industrial Board and the Scientific Advisory Board.

VSC users' committee
--------------------

The VSC user's committee was established to provide advise on the needs
of users and ways to improve the services, including the training of
users. The user's committee also plays a role in maintaining contact
with users by spreading information about the VSC, making (potential)
users aware of the possibilities offered by HPC and organising the
annual user day.

These members of the committee are given below in alphabetical order,
according to which university they are associated with:

-  AUHA: Wouter Herrebout, substitute Bart Partoens
-  UAB: Frank De Proft, substitute Wim Thiery
-  AUGent: Marie-Françoise Reyniers or Veronique Van Speybroeck
-  AU-HL: Sorin Pop, substitute Sofie Thijs
-  KU Leuven association: Dirk Roose, substitute Nele Moelans

The members representing the strategic research institutes are

-  VIB: Steven Maere, substitute Frederik Coppens
-  imec: Wilfried Verachtert
-  VITO: Clemens Mensinck, substitute Katrijn Dirix
-  Flanders Make: Mark Engels, substitute Paola Campestrini

The representation of the Industrial Board:

-  Benny Westaedt, substitute Mia Vanstraelen

Tier-1 evaluation committee
---------------------------

This committee evaluates applications for computing time on the Tier-1.
Based upon admissibility and other evaluation criteria the committee
grants the appropriate computing time.

This committee is composed as follows:

-  Walter Lioen, chairman (SURFsara, The Netherlands);
-  Derek Groen (Computer Science, Brunel University London, UK);
-  Sadaf Alam (CSCS, Switzerland);
-  Nicole Audiffren (Cines, France);
-  Gavin Pringle (EPCC, UK).

The FWO provides the secretariat of the committee.

Industrial Board
----------------

The Industrial Board serves as a communication channel between the VSC
and the industry in Flanders. The VSC offers a scientific/technical
computing infrastructure to the whole Flemish research community and
industry. The Industrial Board can facilitate the exchange of ideas and
expertise between the knowledge institutions and industry.

The Industrial Board also develops initiatives to inform companies and
non-profit institutions about the added value that HPC delivers in the
development and optimisation of services and products and promotes the
services that the VSC delivers to companies, such as consultancy,
research collaboration, training and compute power.

The members are:

-  Mia Vanstraelen (IBM)
-  Charles Hirsch (Numeca)
-  Herman Van der Auweraer (Siemens Industry Software NV)
-  Benny Westaedt (Van Havermaet)
-  Marc Engels (Flanders Make)
-  Marcus Drosson (Umicore)
-  Sabien Vulsteke (BASF Agricultural Solutions)
-  Birgitta Brys (Worldline)

"
