Licensed software on the UAntwerp clusters
==========================================

Several of the software packages running on the UAntwerp cluster have
restrictions in their licenses and cannot be used by all users. If a
module does not load, it is very likely that you have no access to the
package.

Access to such packages is managed by UNIX groups. You can request
membership to the group, but that membership will only be granted if you
are eligible for use of the package.

ANSYS
-----

CPMD
----

`CPMD <\%22http://www.cpmd.org/\%22>`__ can be used for free for
non-commercial research in education institutions under the `CPMD Free
License <\%22http://cpmd.org/download/cpmd-licence\%22>`__.

To get access:

-  `Fill in the form for downloading
   CPMD <\%22http://cpmd.org/download/accept-license/cpmd-license-application\%22>`__
   on the CPMD website.
-  You'll see a \\"Thank You\" page confirming your submission. Somewhat
   later - it may take up to a week but usually it is quite fast -
   you'll receive a mail with download instructions. Please forward that
   mail to `hpc@uantwerpen.be <\%22mailto:hpc@uantwerpen.be\%22>`__. We
   then have to check with IBM for confirmation.
-  Apply for membership of the acpmd group via the `VSC account
   managment webpage <\%22https://account.vscentrum.be/\%22>`__.
-  As soon as we have confirmation from IBM that your license
   application has been accepted, your membership application for acpmd
   will be granted and you will be able to use CPMD.

COMSOL
------

FINE/Marine
-----------

FINE/Marine is commercial CFD software from NUMECA International for
simulation of flow around ships etc. The license has been granted for
use of the Solar Boat Team as sponsoring from NUMECA and cannot be used
by others.

Gaussian
--------

To use Gaussian, you should work or study at the University of Antwerp
and your research group should contribute to the cost of the license.

Contact `Wouter
Herrebout <\%22https://www.uantwerpen.be/en/staff/wouter-herrebout/\%22>`__
for more information.

Gurobi
------

MATLAB
------

We do not encourage the use of Matlab on the cluster as it is neither
designed for use of HPC (despite a number of toolboxes that support
parallel computing) nor efficient.

Matlab on the UAntwerp clusters can be used by everybody who can legally
use Matlab within the UAntwerp Campus Agreement with The Mathworks. You
should have access to the modules if you are eligible. If you cannot
load the Matlab modules yet think you are allowed to use Matlab under
the UAntwerp license, please `contact
support <\%22/support/contact-support\%22>`__.

TurboMole
---------

VASP
----
