Interesting links
=================

Getting compute time in other centres
-------------------------------------

-  `PRACE - Partnership for Advanced Computing in
   Europe <\%22http://www.prace-ri.eu/\%22>`__ has a `program to get
   access to the tier-0 infrastructure in
   Europe <\%22http://www.prace-ri.eu/hpc-access\%22>`__.
-  The `DOE leadership computing program
   INCITE <\%22http://www.doeleadershipcomputing.org/\%22>`__ also
   offers compute time to non-US-groups. It is more or less the
   equivalent of the PRACE tier-0 computing program. The annual deadline
   for proposals is usually end of June.

Training programs in other centres
----------------------------------

-  `PRACE training
   programs <\%22http://www.training.prace-ri.eu/nc/training_courses/index.html\%22>`__
-  `HLRS, Stuttgart
   (Germany) <\%22https://www.hlrs.de/solutions-services/service-portfolio/training\%22>`__
-  `Leibniz RechenZentrum, Garching, near München
   (Germany) <\%22https://www.lrz.de/services/compute/courses/\%22>`__,
   organised together with the `Erlangen Computing
   Centre <\%22https://www.rrze.fau.de\%22>`__.

EU initiatives
--------------

-  `PRACE, Partnership for Advanced Computing in
   Europe <\%22http://www.prace-ri.eu/\%22>`__
-  `EGI - European Grid Initiative <\%22https://www.egi.eu/\%22>`__, the
   successor of the `EGEE - Enabling Grids for
   E-SciencE <\%22http://eu-egee-org.web.cern.ch/eu-egee-org/index.html\%22>`__
   program
-  `HET, HPC in Europe
   Taskforce <\%22http://www.hpcineuropetaskforce.eu/\%22>`__, a project
   within `ESFRI, European Strategy Forum on Research
   Infrastructures <\%22http://ec.europa.eu/research/esfri\%22>`__
-  The `e-IRG, e-Infrastructure Reflection
   Group <\%22http://e-irg.eu/\%22>`__

Some grid efforts
-----------------

-  `WLCG - World-wide LHC Computing
   Grid <\%22http://wlcg.web.cern.ch/\%22>`__, the compute grid
   supporting the Large Hedron Collider at Cern
-  The `XSEDE <\%22https://www.xsede.org/\%22>`__ program in the US
   which combines a large spectrum of resources across the USA in a
   single virtual infrastructure
-  The `Open Science Grid
   (OSG) <\%22https://opensciencegrid.org/\%22>`__ is a grid focused on
   high throughput computing in the US and one of the resource providers
   in the XSEDE project

Some HPC centres in Europe
--------------------------

-  Belgium

   -  `CÉCI - Consortium des Équipements de Calcul
      Intensif <\%22http://www.ceci-hpc.be/\%22>`__, the equivalent of
      the VSC run by the French Community of Belgium

-  Danmark: The `DeIC - Danish e-Infrastructure
   Cooperation <\%22https://www.deic.dk/\%22>`__ is a virtual
   organisation just as the VSC in which several universities
   participate
-  Germany:

   -  `GCS, Gauss Centre for
      Supercomputing <\%22http://www.gauss-centre.eu/gauss-centre/EN/Home/home_node.html\%22>`__,
      a collaboration of three German national supercomputer centres

      -  `JSC, Jülich Supercomputer
         Centre <\%22http://www.fz-juelich.de/ias/jsc/EN/Home/home_node.html\%22>`__
         of the `Forschungszentrum
         Jülich <\%22http://www.fz-juelich.de/portal/EN/Home/home_node.html\%22>`__.
      -  `HLRS, Höchstleistungsrechenzentrum
         Stuttgart <\%22https://www.hlrs.de/home/\%22>`__.
      -  `LRZ, Leibniz Rechenzentrum der Bayerischen Akademie der
         Wissenschaften <\%22https://www.lrz.de/\%22>`__

   -  `HLRN, Norddeutscher Verbund für Hoch- und
      Höchstleistungsrechnen <\%22https://www.hlrn.de/home/view/\%22>`__,
      a German supercomputer center in which 7 Bundesländer (\"States\")
      in Northern Germany participate
   -  `Max Planck Computing and Data Facility, Rechenzentrum
      Garching <\%22http://www.mpcdf.mpg.de\%22>`__ of the Max Planck
      Society and the IPP (Institute for Plasma Physics)

-  Finland: `CSC <\%22https://www.csc.fi/home/\%22>`__.
-  France:

   -  `GENCI, Grand Equipement National de Calcul
      Intensif <\%22http://www.genci.fr/en\%22>`__, coordinates the 3
      French national supercomputer centres:

      -  `CCRT/CEA, Centre de Calcul Recherche et
         Technologie <\%22http://www-ccrt.cea.fr/\%22>`__, which also
         runs the French Tier-0 cluster for the PRACE program.
      -  `CINES, Centre Informatique National de l’Enseignement
         Supérieur <\%22https://www.cines.fr/\%22>`__.
      -  `IDRIS, Institut du Développement et des Ressources en
         Informatique Scientifique <\%22http://www.idris.fr/\%22>`__.

-  Ireland: `ICHEC, Irish Centre for High-End
   Computing <\%22https://www.ichec.ie/\%22>`__.
-  Italy: `CINECA <\%22https://www.cineca.it/\%22>`__, a non profit
   Consortium, made up of 32 Italian universities, The National
   Institute of Oceanography and Experimental Geophysics - OGS, the CNR
   (National Research Council), and the Ministry of University and
   Research.
-  Netherlands:
   `SURFsara <\%22https://www.surf.nl/en/about-surf/subsidiaries/surfsara/\%22>`__,
   the organisation running the Dutch academic supercomputers
-  Norway: `UNINETT Sigma2 AS <\%22https://www.sigma2.no/\%22>`__
   manages the national infrastructure for computational science in
   Norway, and offers services in high performance computing and data
   storage.
-  Spain: `BSC, Barcelona Supercomputing
   Center <\%22https://www.bsc.es/\%22>`__.
-  Sweden:

   -  `SNIC, the Swedish National Infrastructure for
      Computing <\%22http://www.snic.se/\%22>`__, is a meta-centre that
      coordinates high-performance and grid computing in 6 Swedish
      supercomputer centres and that represents Sweden in PRACE
   -  `PDC Center for High Performance
      Computing <\%22https://www.pdc.kth.se/\%22>`__ at
      `KTH <\%22https://www.kth.se/\%22>`__ houses the largest
      supercomputer of Sweden.

-  Switzerland: `CSCS, the Swiss National Supercomputer
   Center <\%22https://www.cscs.ch/\%22>`__, an autonomous unit of ETH
   Zürich
-  United Kingdom:

   -  `Archer <\%22http://www.archer.ac.uk/\%22>`__, the UK national
      supercomputer service run by EPCC
   -  `University of Bristol Advanced Computing Research
      Centre <\%22https://www.acrc.bris.ac.uk/\%22>`__
   -  `University of Cambridge High Performance Computing
      Service <\%22https://www.hpc.cam.ac.uk/\%22>`__
   -  `Advanced Research Computing @
      Cardiff <\%22http://www.cardiff.ac.uk/advanced-research-computing\%22>`__
   -  `EPCC, Edinburgh Parallel Computing
      Centre <\%22http://www.epcc.ed.ac.uk/\%22>`__
   -  `Supercomputing
      Wales <\%22https://www.supercomputing.wales/\%22>`__, also a
      consortium of universities similar to the VSC

"
