| 
| 4) Finally, save both the public and private keys in a secure place
  (i.e., a folder on your personal computer, or on your personal USB
  stick, ...) with the buttons 'Save public key' and 'Save private key'.
  We recommend to use the name \\"id_rsa.pub\" for the public key, and
  \\"id_rsa.ppk\" for the private key.

**If you use another program to generate a key pair, please remember
that they need to be in the OpenSSH format to access the VSC clusters.**

Converting PuTTY keys to OpenSSH format
---------------------------------------

OpenSSH is a very popular command-line SSH client originating from the
Linux world but now available on many operating systems. Therefore its
file format is a very popular one. Some applications, such as Eclipse's
SSH components, can not handle private keys generated with PuTTY, only
OpenSSH compliant private keys. However, PuTTY's key generator
'PuTTYgen' (that was used to generate the public/private key pair in the
first place) can be used to convert the PuTTY private key to one that
can be used by Eclipse.

#. Start PuTTYgen.
#. From the 'Conversions' menu, select 'Import key' and choose the file
   containing your PuTTY private key that is used to authenticate on the
   VSC cluster.
#. When prompted, enter the appropriate passphrase.
#. From the 'Conversions' menu, select 'Export OpenSSH key' and save it
   as 'id_rsa' (or any other name if the former already exists).
   Remember the file name and its location, it will have to be specified
   in the configuration process of, e.g., Eclipse.
#. Exit PuTTYgen.
