Using software
==============

The best way to get a complete list of all available software in a
particular cluster can be obtained by typing:

::

   $ module av

In order to use those software packages, the user should work with the
`module system <\%22/cluster-doc/software/modules\%22>`__. On the newer
systems, we use the same naming conventions for packages on all systems.
Due to the ever expanding list of packages, we've also made some
adjustments and don't always show all packages, so be sure to check out
the page on `the module
system <\%22/cluster-doc/software/modules\%22>`__ again to `learn how
you can see more
packages <\%22/cluster-doc/software/modules#getting-more-software\%22>`__.

| *Note: Since August 2016, a*\ `different implementation of the module
  system has been implemented on the UGent and VUB Tier-2
  systems <\%22/cluster-doc/software/modules-lmod\%22>`__\ *, called
  Lmod. Though highly compatible with the system used on the other
  clusters, it offers*\ `a lot of new
  commands <\%22/cluster-doc/software/modules-lmod#commands\%22>`__\ *,
  and*\ `some key
  differences <\%22/cluster-doc/software/modules-lmod#Advantages-differences\%22>`__\ *.*

-  As not everybody has access to the Tier-1 system Muk, here is an
   `overview of the currently installed software on that
   system <\%22/cluster-doc/software/tier1-muk\%22>`__.

Packages with additional documentation
--------------------------------------

-  Matlab (a package by `The
   MathWorks <\%22https://nl.mathworks.com\%22>`__)

   -  `Starting Matlab <\%22/cluster-doc/software/matlab\%22>`__
   -  `Parallel computing with
      Matlab <\%22/cluster-doc/software/matlab-dc\%22>`__

-  R

   -  `Accessing command line arguments in R
      scripts <\%22/cluster-doc/software/r-cla-in-scripts\%22>`__
   -  `Integrating C functions in
      R <\%22/cluster-doc/software/r-integrate-c-functions\%22>`__

-  Some programming languages have an extensive standard library, but
   optionally allow to install extra packages. For most languages, the
   user can install packages in his own home directory without system
   administrator intervention. Some documentation for doing this for
   `Perl <\%22/cluster-doc/development/perl-packages\%22>`__ and
   `Python <\%22/cluster-doc/development/python-packages\%22>`__ is
   provided.

"
